Interface:

An interface is a collection of abstract methods. 
A class implements an interface, thereby inheriting the abstract methods of the interface.
 
An interface is different from a class in following ways:
1)You cannot instantiate an interface.
2)An interface does not contain any constructors.
3)All of the methods in an interface are abstract.
4)An interface cannot contain instance fields. The only fields that can appear in an interface must be declared both static and final.
5)An interface is not extended by a class; it is implemented by a class.
6)An interface can extend multiple interfaces.
7)An interface which is declared within another interface (or) class is known as nested interface.

Interfaces have the following properties:
1)An interface is implicitly abstract. You do not need to use the abstract keyword when declaring an interface.
2)Each method in an interface is also implicitly abstract, so the abstract keyword is not needed.
3)Methods in an interface are implicitly public.

For implementation interfaces, there are several rules:
1)A class can implement more than one interface at a time.
2)A class can extend only one class, but implement many interfaces.
3)An interface can extend another interface, similarly to the way that a class can extend another class.

For overriding methods defined in interfaces there are several rules to be followed:
1)Checked exceptions should not be declared on implementation methods other than the ones declared by the interface method or subclasses of those declared by the interface method.
2)The signature of the interface method and the same return type or subtype should be maintained when overriding the methods.
3)An implementation class itself can be abstract and if so interface methods need not be implemented.






------------------
Why multiple inheritance is not supported in case of class but it is supported in case of interface?
Multiple inheritance is not supported in case of class.
But it is supported in case of interface because there is no ambiguity as implmentation is provided by the implementation class if both interface have same methods.

Why multiple inheritance is supported in case of class?








