Type Casting:
Converting one datatype into another datatype is called typecasting.

Types of datatypes:
1) Primitive datatypes
2) Referenced datatypes

1) Primitive datatype:
The datatypes which a single entity are called primitive datatype.
Example: byte, char, short, int, float, long, double, boolean

2) Referenced datatypes:
Referenced datatypes represents  a group of values.
Example: array, class

Casting a primitive datatypes:
Casting a primitive datatypes is done in 2 ways i.e, widening & narrowing.
primitive datatypes are classified into 2 types lower to higher types.
byte, short, char, int, long, float, double are datatypes from lower to higher types.
boolean is not included, because it cann't be converted into any other types.

Converting a lower datatypes onto a higher datatypes is called widening.
	char  ch = 'A';
	int  asciiValue = (int) ch;
	
Implicit casting is done by the java compiler internally. It is done to convert a lower datatype into a higher datatype.

Narrowing  a primitive datatypes:
Converting a higher datatype into a lower datatype is called 'narrowing'.
	int num = 66;
	char ch = (char)num;

Explicat casting is done by the programmer It is done to convert higher datatype into a lower datatype.
Explicat casting is compulsory while converting from a higher datatype to lower datatype.

Casting Reference Datatypes:
A class is a referenced datatype. Converting a class type into another class type is also possible through casting.
But the classes should have the same relation between them by the way of inheritance.
	
	class Dog{
	}	
	
	class Horse{
	}
Here, we cannot convert a Dog class into Horse class as their is no relation between them.

	University(superclass)
		^
		|
	 College(sub class)	
		^
		|
	 Department(sub class)
		^
		|
Here, we can convert college class into University class and Department class into College class.
These classes (University, College, Department) have a relation ship by the way of inheritance.

-------------------

-------------------
What is generization?
Generalization is a phenomenon where a subclass is promoted to a superclass and hence become more general.


What is specialization?
Specilization is phenomenon where a  superclass is narrowed down to a subclass.


What is difference widening & narrowing?
Converting a lower datatype into higher datatype is called widening.
Converting a higher datatype into lower datatype is called widening.
Widening is done by the compiler.
Narrowing is done by the programmer.



		 
	

	